[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: So if C and
W both pointed to the same array, and
you froze W, Z would also be frozen.
The contents of Z, right?
So Z and-
>> Speaker 2: [CROSSTALK]
>> Kyle Simpson: If you had line 11,
const w = Object.freeze, and
then on line 11.5, you said Z = W.
So what you're asking.
>> Speaker 2: If you say w = z and
then you freeze w-
>> Kyle Simpson: If line 11 said const w =
Object.freeze Z, okay,
is that the question?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Kyle Simpson: The answer to that
question is all about references.
Z is simply a reference to the array so
you would be taking a reference to
the array, passing in an object.freeze,
it would be making a change to
the actual array and now z and
w would be constant references to
the same array which now had been frozen.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
So z would be frozen also?
>> Kyle Simpson: It's not appropriate
to think of it as being frozen also cuz
there's only one.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: What we're saying is that
we've made that change at a distance in
a sense, we've made it in line 11 and
affected the value that we saw on line 7.
Okay?
Yes?
>> Speaker 3: I think you just
answered this a minute ago, but
I understand the concept of 7 and 9, but
would you ever do 9 except by accident?
>> Kyle Simpson: Absolutely.
You know where this happens the most?
When somebody says z.length = 0.
The question was would line
9 ever happen intentionally?
Not in that exact representation,
where I'm changing one of the values,
although that can happen, but what
would happen is when somebody tried to
empty out your array, you send in
an array and somebody said .length=0,
now they've mutated the contents
of the array to empty it out and
maybe they then started
adding more stuff to it.
And they thought, I'm working on my
own copy of an array and they weren't,
they were working on your array,
so absolutely.
It's one of the hazards of having
references to values is when
you pass a reference to someone, you're
giving them the keys to the kingdom.
Yes.
>> Speaker 4: They asked, so object.freeze
does not return a copy of the object?
>> Kyle Simpson: It does not, it returns
the object itself having now been frozen.
>> Speaker 5: Is there a way
to unfreeze that or something?
>> Kyle Simpson: Is there
a way to unfreeze objects?
You cannot unfreeze an object, but
there are multiple levels of freezing.
This is a little bit further
than we're gonna get into,
but freeze is like the top level.
It's like a permanent sort
of irrevocable thing.
But there are other
things that you can do to
set them all as read-only and
things like that, and those are undoable.
But freeze is sort of the [SOUND] yeah.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
fantastic questions.
Now, the other thing that we mean about
immutability and this is is the much more
important thing to take away from
a functional programming perspective.
What we mean about immutability
is actually a discipline,
which is that whatever values we're given,
we choose not to change them.
Whether or not the value itself
is actually unchangeable
is not really the point.
The point really is that
we choose not to change it.
If we chose to change it and
it was immutable, like it was frozen,
we'd get an error.
If we chose to change and it wasn't, we'd
create a side effect so in either case,
we don't wanna do it.
So we say, I'm going to take
somebody's value, like an array, and
I'm going to not change it but
instead produce either a copy of it or
produce my own set of values.
I'm not going to mutate in place.
That's really what a functional programmer
is more talking about with immutability.
Not a characteristic of the value
itself but a characteristic of
how we choose to use the value,
what we choose and choose not to do.
In a functional programming language,
they don't let you do it.
JavaScript lets you do it,
unless it's been frozen, but
we can still be functional programmers in
a sense that we choose not to mutate it.
Okay?
So, let's illustrate that.
What if I had a function like
doubleThemMutable, okay?
It changes the array in place.
You notice I passed an array 3, 4,
5, I called doubleThemMutable, and
it's actually changing the array in place,
doubling all of those values.
We could see why this is, this would
also be considered an impure function,
cuz it's having a side
effect on the outside world.
Not by lexical side effect, but
by reference side effect because
we passed in a reference.
It's able to make a change to
a value that's actually not
entirely within itself.
So this is an impure
function in that sense.
We're making a change
on the outside world.
You've probably written hundreds
of functions like this.
This is extremely common.
So I'm not saying it's bad,
but I'm saying it's impure.
It doesn't match with the principles
of functional programming.
And to whatever extent that we're
trying to use functional programming,
notions of immutability are things that
we wanna pay very close attention to.
It's one of the core key concepts, okay?
So, how could we change this
to do the same action but
to do it in an immutable way?
That is to produce another value,
another list rather than
changing the list in place.
So my superly, awesomely named
function doubleThemImmutable.
You notice that the main
thing here is that I'm
setting these values into a new list
array, an entirely separate array.
Has the same number of values in it but
when I return it back on line 12,
arr is still the original untouched array.
It does not matter in this program
whether array was actually immutable.
What matters is that I use the principle
of immutability not to change arr.
Very subtle but very,
very important difference.
So one of the chatroom questions was,
Are arrays passed as references?
Yes.
So the way JavaScript does it, and this
is actually covered in one of my other
workshops, but the way JavaScript
does it is, all simple primitives,
that's the null, undefined,
billion, string and number.
Those five simple primitives,
those are always held by value, that means
a variable holds that value itself, and
that means assignments are by value copy.
Meaning the value itself is copied.
So X = 2, Y = X,
Y got a copy of 2 in that.
Non-simple primitives, non-primitives,
like the object, the array,
the function, those are always held by
reference, meaning the variable doesn't
hold the value itself, but
it only holds the reference.
And therefore assignments are by
what we call reference copy.
So if I say y = in an array,
and then I say z = y,
I didn't copy the array but I copied
a reference to the array such that there
are now two separate
references to the same array.
So if that's true of assignment,
then all we need to do to
answer the question about array is
being passed by reference is to say
passing an argument is the same thing
as assigning it to a parameter.
So all assignments happen by reference
copy for reference held values.
They happen by value copy for
value held values.
And there's no other way to change that.
There's no operators or anything.
It's just simply an intrinsic
nature of how the values are held
based on what gets copied.
So, bottomline, yes,
arrays are pass by reference but
actually reference copy is
really the best way to say it.
There are languages where by reference
means different things so I try to make
sure we're clear on it, what JavaScript,
its value copy versus reference copy.
Okay, any other questions?
There were some questions about people
not seeing it throw errors or whatever.
So, not seeing object.freeze when
we're talking about immutability.
So, it's important to note that in
non-strict mode, which is the default,
in non-strict mode,
it will not throw an error,
it will just simply ignore what you did.
In strict mode,
it will actually throw an error.
So, if you're not in strict mode,
you're not gonna be able to see it.
And by the way, if you're programming
at the console in your browser,
turning on strict mode
in the console statement
in your browser is not as
easy as you might think.
You're gonna have to wrap everything
in an iffy, and put use strict in it.
It's not as simple as
putting it on the first line.
It's really annoying.
The consoles don't work like real
JavaScript environments, so.
Pardon me.
So be careful with your strict versus
non-strict if you're trying to
learn stuff about how the errors
are thrown in those immutability cases.